---
layout: post
title:  "Cultural Entry 7 - Conflict"
date:   2015-09-17
categories: blog entry
---
I tend to avoid conflicts and I don’t really enjoy heated confrontations.  However, despite my efforts, there are times when conflict cannot be avoided. Let me tell you a story about a time where I nearly dropped out of college and stopped talking to my parents.

I was a freshman in college and no idea what I wanted to do with my life. I couldn’t, for the life of me, figure out how all these other 18 year olds were so confident with choosing their college majors and career paths.  I thought I liked science so my original plan was to major in biochemistry. Turns out, I didn’t really like science that much. Not enough to spend the majority of my week in a lab, waiting for chemicals to change colors. Anyway, that got me thinking about what I really wanted to do with my life. Long story short, I made the decision that I wanted to study music production. Now since my current university didn’t offer the type of program I wanted, I nonchalantly went to the registrar’s office and picked up a form that would essentially initiate the drop out process.

As you can imagine, my parent’s were not too pleased with my decision. In the heat of the moment, all I could think about was how my parents don’t want me to be happy. I spent almost an entire semester talking to professors, researching and trying to figure out what I wanted to do with my life. After I finally found something I really wanted to peruse, it took just one simple conversation for that to all get tossed out the window.  While I thought my parents were trying to prevent me from being happy, they were only showing their concern for my ability to get a job and live a comfortable life. They were worried that I wouldn’t find a job or get stuck at a dead-end job, which would ultimately result in me not being happy.

It’s tough to say if I would have done anything different. At the time it all seemed like the right thing to do. I wasn’t going to just give up on a career that I felt really passionate about.  I wasn’t one of those kids who applied to college knowing exactly what I wanted to do. So when I finally found something I thought I wanted to do, I didn’t want to let that go. I guess, in the end, it eventually worked itself out.  I’ll never know what would have happened if I perused music but I don’t necessarily regret what happened instead.