---
layout: post
title:  "Cultural Entry 3 - Issues in the Technology Industry"
date:   2015-08-20
categories: blog entry
---
Do you know what I love about technology? Every year there’s a cool new phone for me to buy. Do you know what I hate about technology? Every year there’s a cool new phone for me to buy. It blows my mind to think about all the different things this handheld device can do. What many people may not be thinking about is, wow, what can this tiny device do that I don’t know about.

Technology advances at a stunning rate. You would go crazy, and probably broke, trying to keep up with all the latest gadgets. As technology advances, the laws and ethics surrounding new technologies don’t advance nearly as fast. A simple Google search will return a number of articles that address the issue of the gap between technology advances and the legal system. Unfortunately I’m not a lawyer or politician (nor am I attending a bootcamp to become a lawyer or politician) so I cannot add much more than my opinion on the subject of the slowly advancing laws. However, as someone looking to go into the tech sector, I think its incredibly crucial to consider the ethics of the technologies we are working with and/or creating.

I would like to think that most people generally agree on what is ethical. That’s not to say that there aren’t gray areas but in general, I would like to believe most people could tell good from bad. With that being said, I think the biggest issue the tech industry faces with regards to ethics has to do with a certain mindset. There are many people out there who might think that just because something isn’t illegal it makes it its okay and ethical to do. In the technology field, you can’t think like that. Due to the lag in laws, you cannot simply look at the legality of a technology or action and determine whether it’s ethically right or wrong. It’s an area where you should be looking beyond the law when you make your decision. Going forward it’s important for all of us that we continue to make ethics an important part of our lives in the tech sector.